on behalf of expert village I'm Terry
and I'm here today to show you the
workings of a forge when working with a
forge you always want to take
precautions before you ignite it you
want to make sure that you don't have
any leaks in your hoses no cracks in
your houses your valves are working
properly and once it's ignited and lit
well then you have a then you have the
heat in the burn factor you want to
always use tongs to hold your material
and you want to use gloves the best
gloves to use our teflon-coated gloves
lab here just plain old welding gloves
they'll work what you really want to get
some teflon coated gloves because you
can hold on the material a lot longer
handling these rods will soon get hot
with welding gloves on 24 you can hold
until you have your tongs you really
want to have an apron a heavy leather
apron you know you make one mistake you
drop these you fall you stumble whatever
you drop something on you it's when it's
going to burn right through your clothes
immediately because remember it's 3,000
degrees and so you know what I'm wearing
here some thick card you can see it's
gotten hot before and all of this was
curled up so as far as safety you want
to keep a bucket of water around you
also this in case there's a fire it
starts you know you may not notice it
right away even a fire extinguisher
would help but I keep a bucket around so
I can cool a piece of metal off if you
know if I need to throw it down I don't
throw it on something like a food listo
it in the bucket and you know next
extinguish the heat gets on the rug so
that it doesn't get something else on
fire but it's always good to have plenty
of water maybe even a water hose but
find a bucket and fire extinguishers is
adequate for what I do here I I where I
we're still to boot some people don't
like hammers and things falling on my on
my boots I said that's a that's a good
thing to do is protect your toes you
know there's a lot of
a lot of dangers you don't see around as
long as you're well protected safety
glasses is a good idea usually you don't
get a lot of popping crackle but you
know you have this some you have this
this shell that pops off the metal as
you're working it and you can't get a
piece in your onyx oh so a pair of
safety glasses is a good idea some
people even wear a shield and that's
just to shield your face from the heat
but if you're working in front of a for
a larger force than this and you're
working around it all day it'll be just
like a sunburn you can't blister your
face so I would recommend the shield
gloves safety shoes and the leathery